# LC-3 Basic IO
## Overview
In this lab, you will learn about the IO system in the LC-3 ISA by writing a program that accepts input, processes it, and prints it to the screen.

Specifically, you will read in some ASCII characters, and use these characters to print a pixel map of a character according to [VGA text mode standard](https://wiki.osdev.org/VGA_Fonts#Decoding_of_bitmap_fonts).

## Specification
- The program must start at `x3000`
- The program will accept three ASCII characters, in the following order: (we guarantee all characters will be valid)
    1. The character to print for bit 0
    2. The character to print for bit 1
    3. The character whose pixel map to print
- The program must use `GETC` to get the characters instead of `IN`
    - The inclusion of the string `"IN"` anywhere within `lab12.asm` will result in an immediate 0
- The program will need to access the font data, provided in [font_data.asm](font_data.asm)
    - Do not edit this file
    - For grading, we will replace this file with an exact copy
- The program will utilize the font data for the character to print to the screen

## How does font_data work?
- There are 2^8 = 256 ASCII characters (including extended ones)
    - The table starts with the `x0` ASCII character or NULL
- Each character has a bitfield pixel map of 8x16 (width x height)
- Each row occupies one memory location
- For each row, the 8 column bits occupy the top 8 bits of that row's memory value

For example, this is the bitfield pixel map for `'A'`: (squint your eyes)
```
font_data.asm:          bits:                       what should be printed for input ".@A"
.FILL	x0000           b0000000000000000           ........
.FILL	x0000           b0000000000000000           ........
.FILL	x1000           b0001000000000000           ...@....
.FILL	x3800           b0011100000000000           ..@@@...
.FILL	x6C00           b0110110000000000           .@@.@@..
.FILL	xC600           b1100011000000000           @@...@@.
.FILL	xC600           b1100011000000000           @@...@@.
.FILL	xFE00           b1111111000000000           @@@@@@@.
.FILL	xC600           b1100011000000000           @@...@@.
.FILL	xC600           b1100011000000000           @@...@@.
.FILL	xC600           b1100011000000000           @@...@@.
.FILL	xC600           b1100011000000000           @@...@@.
.FILL	x0000           b0000000000000000           ........
.FILL	x0000           b0000000000000000           ........
.FILL	x0000           b0000000000000000           ........
.FILL	x0000           b0000000000000000           ........
```

### Notes
- For printing newline characters, use `xA` for LF. Do not use `xD`.
- There must be **exactly** 16 LFs (including one on the last line!)
- Print only the pixel map of the characeter that was input. Do not echo any prompts or anything else to the user.

## Recommendations

### Use flowchart 
It is highly recommended to at least draw a flowchart or write down the logical steps so you know exactly what to do before you start writing code.

### Sneak-peak for lab 13
In lab 13, you will extend up this lab to print a string instead of just a single character. Therefore, it is in your best interest to make the program modular and less dependent on the number of registers available to you.

## Turn-ins (Github)
- `lab12.asm`
